Feat: Dev Portal audit logs (#1903)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/_how-tos/collect-dev-portal-audit-logs-with-sumologic.md

---
title: "Collect Dev Portal audit logs with SumoLogic"
description: "Learn how to configure you SIEM provider to collect {{site.konnect_short_name}} logs and configure a {{site.konnect_short_name}} audit log webhook."
content_type: how_to
related_resources:
  - text: "{{site.konnect_short_name}} audit logs"
    url: /konnect-platform/audit-logs/
automated_tests: false
products:
    - gateway
    - dev-portal

works_on:
    - konnect

tags:
    - security
    - logging
    - audit-logging

tldr:
    q: How do I send Dev Portal audit logs to a SIEM provider like SumoLogic?
    a: |
        Create an HTTPS data collection endpoint and access key in SumoLogic and save their values. Configure an [audit log destination](/api/konnect/audit-logs/v2/#/operations/create-audit-log-destination) in {{site.konnect_short_name}} with the SumoLogic endpoint (`endpoint`), the access key (`authorization`), and set the log format `log_format: cef`. Then create the webhook for your Dev Portal with the [`/portals/{portalId}/audit-log-webhook`](/api/konnect/portal-management/v3/#/operations/update-portal-audit-log-webhook).

prereqs:

>   inline:
>     - title: Dev Portal
>       include_content: prereqs/dev-portal-app-reg
>       icon_url: /assets/icons/dev-portal.svg
>     - title: Dev Portal ID
>       content: |
>         From the overview of the [Dev Portal you created](#dev-portal), get your Dev Portal ID and export it to your environment:
> 
>         ```sh
>         export PORTAL_ID='YOUR DEV PORTAL ID'
>         ```
>       icon_url: /assets/icons/dev-portal.svg

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  inline:
    - title: Dev Portal
      content: |
        For this tutorial, you’ll need a Dev Portal and some Dev Portal settings, like a published API, pre-configured. These settings are essential for Dev Portal to function but configuring them isn’t the focus of this guide. If you don't have these settings already configured, follow these steps to pre-configure them:

      1. [Create a Dev Portal](https://cloud.konghq.com/portals/create).
      1. From the overview of your Dev Portal, get your Dev Portal ID and export it to your environment:
        ```sh
        export PORTAL_ID='YOUR DEV PORTAL ID'
        ```
      1. [Register a test developer account with your Dev Portal](/dev-portal/developer-signup/#1-register-or-sign-in). You can do this by navigating to your Dev Portal URL and clicking **Sign up**.
      icon_url: /assets/icons/dev-portal.svg
```
Since we don't need the "Create an API" step, I figured you could create a separate Dev Portal preqreq for this. The spacing might be off in my suggestion.

```sh
export DESTINATION_ID='YOUR DESTINATION ID'
```

## Enable the webhook on your Dev Portal

Create a webhook by sending a `PATCH` request to the [`/portals/{portalId}/audit-log-webhook`](/api/konnect/portal-management/v3/#/operations/update-portal-audit-log-webhook) endpoint with the audit log destination:

```sh
curl -i -X PATCH https://us.api.konghq.com/v3/portals/$PORTAL_ID/audit-log-webhook \
 --header "Content-Type: application/json" \
 --header "Authorization: Bearer $KONNECT_TOKEN" \
 --json '{
     "audit_log_destination_id": "'$DESTINATION_ID'",
     "enabled": true
 }'
```

Webhooks are triggered via an HTTPS request using the following retry rules:

- Minimum retry wait time: 1 second
- Maximum retry wait time: 30 seconds
- Maximum number of retries: 4

A retry is performed on a connection error, server error (`500` HTTP status code), or too many requests (`429` HTTP status code).

## Validate

To validate that the webhook is configured correctly, you can log in to your Dev Portal with the account you created in the [prerequisites](#dev-portal). This should trigger a log in SumoLogic. Sometimes it can take a minute to populate the logs.

> In the SumoLogic UI, navigate to the [log search](https://service.sumologic.com/log-search) and search for `_sourcecategory="Http Input"`. You should see logs like the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the SumoLogic UI, navigate to the [log search](https://service.sumologic.com/log-search) and search for `_source=Konnect`. You should see logs like the following:
```
The search example didn't work for me. The one I added did, but I think that was because I named my source `Konnect` in SumoLogic.
